.TH "OPENCV_CREATESAMPLES" "1" "May 2010" "OpenCV" "User Commands"


.SH NAME
opencv_createsamples \- create training and testing samples


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B opencv_createsamples [options]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B opencv_createsamples
creates positive samples from a single object image or a collection of
positive images.
.PP
The scheme of test samples creation is similar to training samples creation
since each test sample is a background image into which a randomly
distorted and randomly scaled instance of the object picture is pasted at a
random position.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B opencv_createsamples
supports the following options:

.PP
.TP
.BI "\-info " collection_file_name
A database of positive source images. Use it together with
.B \-img
to create test samples instead.

.TP
.BI "\-img " image_file_name
A positive source image. Use it together with
.B \-info
to create test samples instead.

.TP
.BI "\-vec " vec_file_name
The output file name containing the generated positive samples for training.

.TP
.BI "\-bg " background_file_name
The background description file (the negative sample set). It contains a list
of images into which randomly distorted versions of the object are pasted for
positive sample generation.

.TP
.BI "\-num " number_of_samples
The number of positive samples to generate/train. The default is
.IR 1000 .

.TP
.BI "\-bgcolor " background_color
The background color (currently grayscale images are assumed); the background
color denotes the transparent color. The default is
.IR 0 .
.\" TODO: What does 0 mean? How are colors expressed with integers?

.TP
.B \-inv
Invert the colors.
.TP

.TP
.BI "\-maxidev " max_intensity_deviation
The desired maximum intensity deviation of foreground samples pixels. The
default is
.IR 40 .

.TP
.BI "\-maxxangle " max_x_rotation_angle
The maximum rotation angle in x-direction in radians. The default is
.IR 1.1 .

.TP
.BI "\-maxyangle " max_y_rotation_angle
The maximum rotation angle in y-direction in radians. The default is 
.IR 1.1 .

.TP
.BI "\-maxzangle " max_z_rotation_angle
The maximum rotation angle in z-direction in radians. The default is 
.IR 0.5 .

.TP
.BI "\-show [" scale_factor "]"
Show each created sample during the creation process. Optionally a scaling
factor can be defined. The default is
.IR 4.0 .
.IP
If <\fBESC\fR> is pressed, the creation process will continue without showing
the samples. This can be useful for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BI "\-h " sample_height
For the creation of training samples, it is the resulting sample height.
The default is
.IR 24 .
.IP
In case of creating test samples, it is the minimal height of placed object 
picture.

.TP
.BI "\-w " sample_width
For the creation of training samples, it is the resulting sample width.
The default is
.IR 24 .
.IP
In case of creating test samples, it is the minimal width of placed object
picture.

.PP
The same information is shown, if
.B opencv_createsamples
is called without any arguments/options.


.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To create training samples from one image applying distortions and show the
results:
.IP
.B opencv_createsamples -img source.png -num 10 -bg negatives.dat -vec samples_out.vec -show
.PP
To create training samples of size 40x40 from some images without applying
distortions:
.IP
.B opencv_creasamples -info source.dat -vec samples_out.vec -w 40 -h 40


.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR opencv_haartraing (1),
.BR opencv_performance (1)
.PP
More information and examples can be found in the OpenCV documentation.


.SH AUTHORS
.PP
This manual page was written by \fBDaniel Leidert\fR <\&daniel.leidert@wgdd.de\&>
and \fBNobuhiro Iwamatsu\fR <\&iwamatsu@debian.org\&>
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
