.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH GO-BUILD 1 "2012-05-13"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
go \- tool for managing Go source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B go build
.RB [\|\-o
.IR output \|]
.RB [
.IR "build flags"
.RB ]
.RB [
.IR packages
.RB ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Build compiles the packages named by the import paths,
along with their dependencies, but it does not install the results.

If the arguments are a list of .go files, build treats them as a list
of source files specifying a single package.

When the command line specifies a single main package,
build writes the resulting executable to output.
Otherwise build compiles the packages but discards the results,
serving only as a check that the packages can be built.

The \-o flag specifies the output file name.  If not specified, the
name is packagename.a (for a non-main package) or the base
name of the first source file (for a main package).
.SH OPTIONS
The build flags are shared by the build, install, run, and test commands:
.TP
.B \-a
force rebuilding of packages that are already up-to-date.
.TP
.B \-n
print the commands but do not run them.
.TP
.B \-p n
the number of builds that can be run in parallel. The default is the number of CPUs available.
.TP
.B \-v
print the names of packages as they are compiled.
.TP
.B \-work
print the name of the temporary work directory and do not delete it when exiting.
.TP
.B \-x
print the commands.
.TP
.B \-compiler name
name of compiler to use, as in runtime.Compiler (gccgo or gc)
.TP
.B \-gccgoflags 'arg list'
arguments to pass on each gccgo compiler/linker invocation
.TP
.B \-gcflags 'arg list'
arguments to pass on each 5g, 6g, or 8g compiler invocation
.TP
.B \-ldflags 'flag list'
arguments to pass on each 5l, 6l, or 8l linker invocation
.TP
.B \-tags 'tag list'
a list of build tags to consider satisfied during the build.
See the documentation for the go/build package for
more information about build tags.
.P
For more about specifying packages, see \fBgo-packages\fP(7).
.P
For more about where packages and binaries are installed, see \fBgo-gopath\fP(1).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR go-install (1),
.BR go-get (1),
.BR go-clean (1).
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
