.TH DTC 1 "30 January 2012" "Linux"
.SH NAME
\fBdtc\fP \- Device Tree Compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/usr/bin/dtc\fP [options] <input file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Device Tree Compiler, dtc, takes as input a device-tree in
a given format and outputs a device-tree in another format
for booting kernels on embedded systems.
Typically, the input format is "dts", a human readable source
format, and creates a "dtb", or binary format as output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Display help text.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet:
.IP
\fB-q\fR \- Suppress warnings.
.br
\fB-qq\fR \- Suppress errors.
.br
\fB-qqq\fR \- Suppress all.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR <input format>
.IP
Input formats are:
.IP
\fBdts\fR \- device tree source text
.br
\fBdtb\fR \- device tree blob
.br
\fBfs\fR \- /proc/device\-tree style directory
.TP
\fB\-o\fR <output file>
.IP
Dump the result into a file, instead of stdout.
.TP
\fB\-O\fR <output format>
.IP
Output formats are:
.IP
\fBdts\fR \- device tree source text
.br
\fBdtb\fR \- device tree blob
.br
\fBasm\fR \- assembler source
.TP
\fB\-V\fR <output version>
.IP
Blob version to produce. The default is 17 (only relevant for dtb
and asm output).
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <output dependency file>
.TP
\fB\-R\fR <number>
.IP
Make space for <number> reserve map entries (only relevant for dtb
and asm output).
.TP
\fB\-S\fR <bytes>
.IP
Make the blob at least <bytes> long (extra space).
.TP
\fB\-p\fR <bytes>
.IP
Add padding to the blob of <bytes> long (extra space)
.HP
\fB\-b\fR <number>
.IP
Set the physical boot CPU.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
.IP
Force \- try to produce output even if the input tree has errors.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
.IP
Sort nodes and properties before outputting (only useful for comparing trees)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Print DTC version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR <phandle format>
.IP
phandle formats are:
.IP
\fBlegacy\fR \- "linux,phandle" properties only
.br
\fBepapr\fR \- "phandle" properties only
.br
\fBboth\fR \- Both "linux,phandle" and "phandle" properties
.SH AUTHOR
\fBdtc\fP was written by David Gibson
<david@gibson.dropbear.id.au>. Since April 1, 2006, Jon Loeliger
<jdl@jdl.com> assumes maintainership.
.PP
This manual page was originally written by Aur\['e]lien G\['E]R\[^O]ME
<ag@roxor.cx>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
.PP
This manual page is currently maintained and update it by H\['e]ctor Or\['o]n
<zumbi@debian.org>, for the Debian project.
